---
title: growth_01_the_sunset_v2_VHS
voice: chris_growth
caption_style: vhs
template_pool: stoic
broll: local
game: minecraft_scenic
music: alej one more day
---
Last weekend, I took magic mushrooms for the first time in a long time. Not to escape reality. The opposite. I needed to check back into it.
Because here's what happens to all of us. You get into the motion of life. Classes, work, the gym, your phone, sleep. Repeat.
And somewhere in that loop, you stop being present. You're alive, but you're not actually there for any of it.
And lately, it had gone deeper than that. I was struggling with my motivation. Because at some point you look up and ask the real question. What is the point of all this? Why am I doing this work?
So that evening, me and a friend went to watch the sunset.
And I have to be honest about something. I'm twenty years old, and that was the first sunset I have ever actually watched. Not glanced at through a window. Watched.
And I regret every single one I missed. Because it was the most beautiful thing I had ever seen.
But it wasn't just the sunset I was seeing. Sitting there, I could feel the entire evolution of man behind me.
Every generation before me watched this exact same sun. Farmers. Sailors. My own ancestors. And for the first time in my life, I understood my place on this earth.
Then a quote came back to me. Steve Jobs, who experimented with psychedelics too, said those experiences showed him what actually mattered.
Not making money. Creating great things, and, in his exact words, putting things back into the stream of history and of human consciousness.
And that's when it clicked. The point of the work was never the money. It's not even about you.
Everything you have. Your language, your knowledge, the phone you're watching this on. Someone before you poured their entire life into it, and then handed it forward.
The way we find purpose is to honor them. To take what our ancestors built and carry it one step further.
You will be here for less than a hundred years. But what you contribute compounds for thousands.
And that's the last thing the sunset taught me. We think we're individuals. We're not. We're waves.
A wave rises, it moves, it crashes. It looks like its own thing. But it was never separate from the ocean. It is the ocean, doing something, for a moment.
That's you. One wave, in an ocean of everyone who ever lived, and everyone still coming.
So be present. Go watch a sunset. And while you're here, put something back in the stream.
